iRODS 5 updates - configuration, process model, installation, genquery, etc. (main) (#338)
irods/irods_docs: docs/system_overview/process_model.md

> # iRODS Process Model

Author: Change back to `#`

Author: Done.

When iRODS starts, it launches a long-running server process:  

> `/usr/sbin/irodsServer`

Author: Adjust this. It's weird when rendered.

Author: Done.

> When iRODS starts, it launches a long-running server process:  
> `/usr/sbin/irodsServer`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When iRODS starts, it launches the long-running server process `/usr/sbin/irodsServer`.
```

Author: Done.

This process immediately creates two other processes:

- **Agent Factory**: Handles all incoming API requests
- **Delay Server** (optional): Manages delayed rule execution

## How requests are handled

> The **Agent Factory** listens for new client connections. For each new connection, it forks a separate **Agent** process. Each Agent handles one client request, completes the work as quickly as possible, and then waits for the next request. Agents will continue to service requests until the client disconnects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Agent Factory** listens for new client connections. For each new connection, it forks a separate **Agent** process. Each Agent handles the initial client request, completes the work as quickly as possible, and then waits for any additional requests. Agents will continue to service requests until the client disconnects.
```

## The Delay Server

> The **Delay Server** is designed to remain idle most of the time. Every 30 seconds _(by default)_, it wakes up and spawns an Agent to check for any delayed rules that need to run. You can adjust this interval using the `delay_server_sleep_time_in_seconds` property in server_config.json. See [Configuration](../system_overview/configuration.md#etcirodsserver_configjson) for more information about this property.

Reviewer: does it spawn an agent?  or does it make a client request which causes the agent factory to spawn an agent?

Author: I think `spawns` is doing a lot of work in that sentence.

> or does it make a client request which causes the agent factory to spawn an agent?

Yes.

Reviewer: right, let's be targeted/specific in our words.   feels like it will help us in the long term.

Author: Done.

## Example Process Tree

    irodsServer
      ├─irodsAgent
      │   ├─irodsAgent
      │   ├─irodsAgent
      │   └─irodsAgent
      └─irodsDelayServer

| iRODS Process         | Expected Duration        | Expected Memory Usage           |
| --------------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| irodsServer           | Long-running             | ~34 MB                          |
| irodsDelayServer      | Long-running             | ~33 MB                          |
| irodsAgent (factory)  | Long-running             | ~92 MB                          |

> | irodsAgent            | Depends on client        | ~92 MB (minimum)                |

Author: Confirm memory usage values.

Author: Done.

> | irodsAgent            | Depends on client        | ~92 MB (minimum)                |

Author: While the use of "Example" in the title isn't wrong, it feels out of place to me.

Try adding a statement which explains that the following structure is an example of what the process tree for iRODS could look like.

Could be helpful to include words about the table too.

Reviewer: Example ....  could be replaced with ...

Standard
Representative
Common
Usual

and consider reordering the table so delayserver is last... like in the text tree

Reviewer: and yes, a could sentences about the table would be good

Reviewer 2: "Expected"?

Author: Updated.

TODO: Update or remove graphic.

> ![iRODS Process Model Diagram](../images/process_model_diagram.jpg)

Author: My initial thought is that the process model diagram can be removed.

@trel Thoughts?

Reviewer: i looked at it the other day - it doesn't seem ... wrong?     what about it is no longer true?

Author: The parts which mention `execAgent`, `socket filename`, `params` are no longer true.

The main reason is that I don't think it adds much value to the docs.

Reviewer: if there are parts that are wrong/misleading - then certainly we don't want that.

i think with the text rendering just above... the image could be removed, yes.

Author: Agreed.

Author: Removed image.
